README.md, before:

# OmniEAR: Benchmarking Agent Reasoning in Embodied Tasks

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied?style=social)](https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

**Authors:** Zixuan Wang¹*, Dingming Li¹*, Hongxing Li¹, Shuo Chen¹, Yuchen Yan¹, Wenqi Zhang¹, Yongliang Shen¹†, Weiming Lu¹, Jun Xiao¹, Yueting Zhuang¹

¹Zhejiang University  
*Equal contribution, †Corresponding author

**🔗 Quick Links:**
- **[🌐 Project Homepage](https://zju-real.github.io/OmniEmbodied/)** - Interactive demos, detailed analysis, and visual results
- **[📖 Documentation](https://omniembodied.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - Installation guides, API reference, and tutorials

---

## Abstract

Large language models excel at abstract reasoning but their capacity for embodied agent reasoning remains largely unexplored. We present **OmniEAR**, a comprehensive framework for evaluating how language models reason about physical interactions, tool usage, and multi-agent coordination in embodied tasks. Unlike existing benchmarks that provide predefined tool sets or explicit collaboration directives, OmniEAR requires agents to dynamically acquire capabilities and autonomously determine coordination strategies based on task demands. Through text-based environment representation, we model continuous physical properties and complex spatial relationships across **1,500 scenarios** spanning household and industrial domains.

Our systematic evaluation reveals severe performance degradation when models must reason from constraints: while achieving **85-96% success** with explicit instructions, performance drops to **56-85%** for tool reasoning and **63-85%** for implicit collaboration, with compound tasks showing **over 50% failure rates**. Surprisingly, complete environmental information degrades coordination performance, indicating models cannot filter task-relevant constraints. Fine-tuning improves single-agent tasks dramatically (0.6% to 76.3%) but yields minimal multi-agent gains (1.5% to 5.5%), exposing fundamental architectural limitations.

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/main.png" alt="Framework Overview" width="700"/>
</p>

*Figure 1: Overview of the OmniEAR framework comprising three integrated components: **OmniSimulator** (left) uses structured text representation to model environments with objects, agents, and spatial relationships; **EAR-Bench** (right) presents our comprehensive evaluation matrix spanning single-agent and multi-agent tasks.*

---

## 🎯 Key Contributions

1. **Novel Evaluation Framework**: We introduce OmniEAR, the first framework to evaluate embodied reasoning through scenarios requiring agents to understand how physical properties determine actions, capabilities, and coordination needs.

2. **Comprehensive Benchmark**: EAR-Bench provides 1,500 scenarios with continuous physical properties and dynamic capabilities, supported by OmniSimulator and an automated generation pipeline.

3. **Fundamental Insights**: We provide empirical evidence that current language models lack core embodied reasoning capabilities, with performance degrading over 60% when moving from explicit instructions to embodied reasoning.

---

## 📊 Benchmark Statistics

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/data_generation.png" alt="Data Generation Pipeline" width="700"/>
</p>

*Figure 2: OmniEAR automated benchmark generation and evaluation framework showing the four-stage pipeline and comprehensive statistics.*

### EAR-Bench Composition
- **1,500** diverse scenarios across household and industrial domains
- **64K** objects with detailed physical properties  
- **6K** attribute types including weight, temperature, material composition
- **7** task categories spanning single-agent and multi-agent scenarios

### Task Categories

**Single-Agent Tasks:**
- **Direct Command** (L1): Basic instruction following
- **Attribute Reasoning** (L2): Continuous property comparison and inference  
- **Tool Use** (L2): Dynamic capability acquisition through tool manipulation
- **Compound Reasoning** (L3): Integrated multi-step planning with multiple challenges

**Multi-Agent Tasks:**
- **Explicit Collaboration** (L1): Clear coordination directives
- **Implicit Collaboration** (L2): Autonomous coordination need recognition
- **Compound Collaboration** (L3): Complex multi-agent scenarios requiring tool use and coordination

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied.git
cd OmniEmbodied/OmniSimulator
pip install -e .
cd ..
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

Before running experiments, configure your LLM API key in `config/baseline/llm_config.yaml`:

```yaml
api:
  provider: "deepseekv3"  # Choose your provider
  providers:
    deepseekv3:
      api_key: "your-api-key-here"  # Replace with your actual API key
```

### Running Experiments

```bash
# Run basic evaluation
bash scripts/deepseekv3-wo.sh
```

**Note**: For scripts ending with `-wg.sh` (with global observation), you need to:
1. Set the runtime parameter `--global` when running
2. Configure `global_observation: true` in `config/simulator/simulator_config.yaml`

---

## 📚 Documentation & Resources

### Complete Documentation

**[📖 OmniEmbodied Documentation](https://omniembodied.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)**

The documentation includes:
- **Installation & Quick Start**: Setup guides and first steps
- **OmniSimulator Guide**: Core simulation engine and environment system
- **Framework Usage**: Evaluation system, agent modes, and data generation
- **API Reference**: Complete class and function documentation
- **Developer Guide**: Contributing, examples, and advanced integration

### Additional Resources

- **📋 Examples**: Practical code samples in the `examples/` directory
- **⚙️ Configuration**: Template files in `config/` for different setups
- **📊 Analysis**: Results visualization with `examples/results_analysis.ipynb`

---

## 📈 Main Results

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/main_table.png" alt="Main Results Table" width="700"/>
</p>

*Figure 3: Performance comparison across all evaluated models showing systematic degradation from explicit instructions to constraint-based reasoning.*

### Key Findings

1. **Performance Degradation**: All models show substantial performance drops when reasoning must emerge from physical constraints rather than explicit instructions.

2. **Scale Effects**: Larger models (GPT-4o, Gemini-2.5-Flash) achieve better performance but still struggle with compound reasoning tasks.

3. **Reasoning Specialization**: Chain-of-thought reasoning models (Deepseek-R1, QwQ-32B) excel at logical planning but fail to ground physical constraints effectively.

4. **Fine-tuning Limitations**: Supervised fine-tuning dramatically improves single-agent performance (0.6% → 76.3%) but shows minimal multi-agent gains (1.5% → 5.5%).

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/exp_1.png" alt="Performance Analysis" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 4: Detailed performance analysis across task categories and model architectures.*

---

## 🏗️ Framework Architecture

### OmniSimulator
- **Text-based Environment Modeling**: Efficient simulation through graph representation
- **Dynamic Capability System**: Tool-dependent action binding and unbinding
- **Emergent Collaboration**: Physics-constrained multi-agent interactions

### Automated Generation Pipeline
- **Neural-Symbolic Hybrid**: LLM creativity with rule-based validation
- **Physical Consistency**: Automated verification of scenario feasibility
- **Diverse Domains**: Scenarios spanning household, industrial, and specialized environments

### Evaluation Framework
- **Systematic Assessment**: Standardized protocols across all models
- **Multiple Metrics**: Success rate, step efficiency, reasoning quality
- **Statistical Reliability**: Three independent runs with confidence intervals

---



## 🔬 Experimental Analysis

### Ablation Studies

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/ae_1.png" alt="Ablation Results" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 5: Ablation study results showing the impact of different framework components.*

### Efficiency Analysis

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/exp_2_step_efficiency.png" alt="Efficiency Analysis" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 6: Step efficiency analysis across different model scales and task complexities.*

### Parameter Scaling Effects

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/exp_2_parameter_scaling.png" alt="Parameter Scaling" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 7: Performance scaling with model parameter count across different task categories.*

---

## 📖 Citation

If you use OmniEAR in your research, please cite our paper:

```bibtex
@misc{wang2025omniearbenchmarkingagentreasoning,
      title={OmniEAR: Benchmarking Agent Reasoning in Embodied Tasks}, 
      author={Zixuan Wang and Dingming Li and Hongxing Li and Shuo Chen and Yuchen Yan and Wenqi Zhang and Yongliang Shen and Weiming Lu and Jun Xiao and Yueting Zhuang},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2508.05614},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.05614}, 
}
```

---



## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

- **🐛 GitHub Issues**: [Report bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied/issues)
- **💬 Discussions**: [Join community discussions](https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied/discussions)
- **📧 Email**: wang.zixuan@zju.edu.cn

---

## 🌟 Acknowledgments

OmniEAR builds upon foundational research in embodied AI, multi-agent systems, and language model evaluation. We thank the research community for their contributions to understanding the challenges of embodied intelligence. Special thanks to the anonymous reviewers for their valuable feedback in improving this work.

Commit message:

feat: enhance project branding and dataset accessibility
- Add project icons for website favicon and README display
- Update dataset availability from 'Coming Soon' to accessible via GitHub
- Add dataset quick link to README with direct path reference
- Integrate project logo in website header and README title
- Replace disabled dataset button with functional GitHub link
- Improve overall project presentation and user experience

Icons:
- Add icon.ico for browser favicon
- Add icon.jpeg for README and website display with responsive sizing

Dataset Updates:
- Enable dataset button linking to GitHub data directory
- Add dataset access information in EAR-Bench composition section
- Update quick links section with dataset reference

README.md, after:

# <img src="pages/static/images/icon.jpeg" alt="OmniEAR Logo" height="32" style="vertical-align: middle;"> OmniEAR: Benchmarking Agent Reasoning in Embodied Tasks

[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied?style=social)](https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

**Authors:** Zixuan Wang¹*, Dingming Li¹*, Hongxing Li¹, Shuo Chen¹, Yuchen Yan¹, Wenqi Zhang¹, Yongliang Shen¹†, Weiming Lu¹, Jun Xiao¹, Yueting Zhuang¹

¹Zhejiang University  
*Equal contribution, †Corresponding author

**🔗 Quick Links:**
- **[🌐 Project Homepage](https://zju-real.github.io/OmniEmbodied/)** - Interactive demos, detailed analysis, and visual results
- **[📖 Documentation](https://omniembodied.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)** - Installation guides, API reference, and tutorials
- **[📊 Dataset](data/)** - EAR-Bench evaluation dataset with 1,500 scenarios

---

## Abstract

Large language models excel at abstract reasoning but their capacity for embodied agent reasoning remains largely unexplored. We present **OmniEAR**, a comprehensive framework for evaluating how language models reason about physical interactions, tool usage, and multi-agent coordination in embodied tasks. Unlike existing benchmarks that provide predefined tool sets or explicit collaboration directives, OmniEAR requires agents to dynamically acquire capabilities and autonomously determine coordination strategies based on task demands. Through text-based environment representation, we model continuous physical properties and complex spatial relationships across **1,500 scenarios** spanning household and industrial domains.

Our systematic evaluation reveals severe performance degradation when models must reason from constraints: while achieving **85-96% success** with explicit instructions, performance drops to **56-85%** for tool reasoning and **63-85%** for implicit collaboration, with compound tasks showing **over 50% failure rates**. Surprisingly, complete environmental information degrades coordination performance, indicating models cannot filter task-relevant constraints. Fine-tuning improves single-agent tasks dramatically (0.6% to 76.3%) but yields minimal multi-agent gains (1.5% to 5.5%), exposing fundamental architectural limitations.

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/main.png" alt="Framework Overview" width="700"/>
</p>

*Figure 1: Overview of the OmniEAR framework comprising three integrated components: **OmniSimulator** (left) uses structured text representation to model environments with objects, agents, and spatial relationships; **EAR-Bench** (right) presents our comprehensive evaluation matrix spanning single-agent and multi-agent tasks.*

---

## 🎯 Key Contributions

1. **Novel Evaluation Framework**: We introduce OmniEAR, the first framework to evaluate embodied reasoning through scenarios requiring agents to understand how physical properties determine actions, capabilities, and coordination needs.

2. **Comprehensive Benchmark**: EAR-Bench provides 1,500 scenarios with continuous physical properties and dynamic capabilities, supported by OmniSimulator and an automated generation pipeline.

3. **Fundamental Insights**: We provide empirical evidence that current language models lack core embodied reasoning capabilities, with performance degrading over 60% when moving from explicit instructions to embodied reasoning.

---

## 📊 Benchmark Statistics

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/data_generation.png" alt="Data Generation Pipeline" width="700"/>
</p>

*Figure 2: OmniEAR automated benchmark generation and evaluation framework showing the four-stage pipeline and comprehensive statistics.*

### EAR-Bench Composition
- **1,500** diverse scenarios across household and industrial domains
- **64K** objects with detailed physical properties  
- **6K** attribute types including weight, temperature, material composition
- **7** task categories spanning single-agent and multi-agent scenarios

📁 **Dataset Access**: The complete EAR-Bench dataset is available in the [`data/`](data/) directory, including task definitions, scene configurations, and evaluation metrics.

### Task Categories

**Single-Agent Tasks:**
- **Direct Command** (L1): Basic instruction following
- **Attribute Reasoning** (L2): Continuous property comparison and inference  
- **Tool Use** (L2): Dynamic capability acquisition through tool manipulation
- **Compound Reasoning** (L3): Integrated multi-step planning with multiple challenges

**Multi-Agent Tasks:**
- **Explicit Collaboration** (L1): Clear coordination directives
- **Implicit Collaboration** (L2): Autonomous coordination need recognition
- **Compound Collaboration** (L3): Complex multi-agent scenarios requiring tool use and coordination

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied.git
cd OmniEmbodied/OmniSimulator
pip install -e .
cd ..
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuration

Before running experiments, configure your LLM API key in `config/baseline/llm_config.yaml`:

```yaml
api:
  provider: "deepseekv3"  # Choose your provider
  providers:
    deepseekv3:
      api_key: "your-api-key-here"  # Replace with your actual API key
```

### Running Experiments

```bash
# Run basic evaluation
bash scripts/deepseekv3-wo.sh
```

**Note**: For scripts ending with `-wg.sh` (with global observation), you need to:
1. Set the runtime parameter `--global` when running
2. Configure `global_observation: true` in `config/simulator/simulator_config.yaml`

---

## 📚 Documentation & Resources

### Complete Documentation

**[📖 OmniEmbodied Documentation](https://omniembodied.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)**

The documentation includes:
- **Installation & Quick Start**: Setup guides and first steps
- **OmniSimulator Guide**: Core simulation engine and environment system
- **Framework Usage**: Evaluation system, agent modes, and data generation
- **API Reference**: Complete class and function documentation
- **Developer Guide**: Contributing, examples, and advanced integration

### Additional Resources

- **📋 Examples**: Practical code samples in the `examples/` directory
- **⚙️ Configuration**: Template files in `config/` for different setups
- **📊 Analysis**: Results visualization with `examples/results_analysis.ipynb`

---

## 📈 Main Results

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/main_table.png" alt="Main Results Table" width="700"/>
</p>

*Figure 3: Performance comparison across all evaluated models showing systematic degradation from explicit instructions to constraint-based reasoning.*

### Key Findings

1. **Performance Degradation**: All models show substantial performance drops when reasoning must emerge from physical constraints rather than explicit instructions.

2. **Scale Effects**: Larger models (GPT-4o, Gemini-2.5-Flash) achieve better performance but still struggle with compound reasoning tasks.

3. **Reasoning Specialization**: Chain-of-thought reasoning models (Deepseek-R1, QwQ-32B) excel at logical planning but fail to ground physical constraints effectively.

4. **Fine-tuning Limitations**: Supervised fine-tuning dramatically improves single-agent performance (0.6% → 76.3%) but shows minimal multi-agent gains (1.5% → 5.5%).

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/exp_1.png" alt="Performance Analysis" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 4: Detailed performance analysis across task categories and model architectures.*

---

## 🏗️ Framework Architecture

### OmniSimulator
- **Text-based Environment Modeling**: Efficient simulation through graph representation
- **Dynamic Capability System**: Tool-dependent action binding and unbinding
- **Emergent Collaboration**: Physics-constrained multi-agent interactions

### Automated Generation Pipeline
- **Neural-Symbolic Hybrid**: LLM creativity with rule-based validation
- **Physical Consistency**: Automated verification of scenario feasibility
- **Diverse Domains**: Scenarios spanning household, industrial, and specialized environments

### Evaluation Framework
- **Systematic Assessment**: Standardized protocols across all models
- **Multiple Metrics**: Success rate, step efficiency, reasoning quality
- **Statistical Reliability**: Three independent runs with confidence intervals

---



## 🔬 Experimental Analysis

### Ablation Studies

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/ae_1.png" alt="Ablation Results" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 5: Ablation study results showing the impact of different framework components.*

### Efficiency Analysis

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/exp_2_step_efficiency.png" alt="Efficiency Analysis" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 6: Step efficiency analysis across different model scales and task complexities.*

### Parameter Scaling Effects

<p align="center">
  <img src="pages/static/images/exp_2_parameter_scaling.png" alt="Parameter Scaling" width="600"/>
</p>

*Figure 7: Performance scaling with model parameter count across different task categories.*

---

## 📖 Citation

If you use OmniEAR in your research, please cite our paper:

```bibtex
@misc{wang2025omniearbenchmarkingagentreasoning,
      title={OmniEAR: Benchmarking Agent Reasoning in Embodied Tasks}, 
      author={Zixuan Wang and Dingming Li and Hongxing Li and Shuo Chen and Yuchen Yan and Wenqi Zhang and Yongliang Shen and Weiming Lu and Jun Xiao and Yueting Zhuang},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2508.05614},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.05614}, 
}
```

---



## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

- **🐛 GitHub Issues**: [Report bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied/issues)
- **💬 Discussions**: [Join community discussions](https://github.com/ZJU-REAL/OmniEmbodied/discussions)
- **📧 Email**: wang.zixuan@zju.edu.cn

---

## 🌟 Acknowledgments

OmniEAR builds upon foundational research in embodied AI, multi-agent systems, and language model evaluation. We thank the research community for their contributions to understanding the challenges of embodied intelligence. Special thanks to the anonymous reviewers for their valuable feedback in improving this work.
